Blog post about new relabeling visualizer in Prometheus 3.8.0 (#2787)
prometheus/docs: blog/posts/2025-12-02-visualizing-target-relabeling-rules-in-the-prometheus-ui.md

---
title: Visualizing Target Relabeling Rules in Prometheus 3.8.0
created_at: 2025-12-02
kind: article
author_name: Julius Volz (@juliusv)
---

> Prometheus' [target relabeling](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/#relabel_config) feature allows you to adust the labels of a discovered target before it is scraped or even drop the target based on its labels. However, understanding and debugging relabeling rules can be challenging. Your relabeling rules have to match the expected labels that your service discovery mechanism returns, and getting any step wrong could label your target incorrectly or accidentally drop it. To help you figure out where things go wrong, Prometheus 3.8.0 [just added a relabeling visualizer](https://github.com/prometheus/prometheus/pull/17337) to the Prometheus server's web UI that allows you to inspect how each relabeling rule is applied to a discovered target's labels. Let's take a look at how it works!

Reviewer: Typo and making it slightly more readable (?)

```suggestion
Prometheus' [target relabeling](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/#relabel_config) feature allows you to adjust or even drop the labels of a discovered target before it is scraped based on its labels. Relabeling rules, while powerful, can be hard to understand and debug. Your rules have to match the expected labels that your service discovery mechanism returns, and getting any step wrong could label your target incorrectly or accidentally drop it.

To help you figure out where things go wrong (or correct), Prometheus 3.8.0 [just added a relabeling visualizer](https://github.com/prometheus/prometheus/pull/17337) to the Prometheus server's web UI that allows you to inspect how each relabeling rule is applied to a discovered target's labels. Let's take a look at how it works!
```

Author: Thanks! I'll adopt some of it, but the "drop" change in the first sentence changes the meaning from dropping a target to dropping a label, so I'll change that a bit.

Author: Fixed + reworded.
